# teaching-project

TEACHING STRATEGY: IN CLASSROOM

I think that the generation of knowledge (scientific research) and its sharing (teaching), are complexly interconnected parts of a knowledge ecosystem. My main objectives while teaching a particular course will be, 
1) to help students filter information, 
2) to help them develop analogies between different concepts, 
3) to inculcate sharing habits and 
4) to develop long-term curiosity. 

Strategy: to achieve each of these 4 goals.

Goal 1: to help students filter information:
The amount of information on a particular subject is increasing at great pace and there are evidences that the information overload influences efficient application of scientific concepts [1]. I have experienced this while learning specialized topics like statistical mechanics of interfaces. I observed that it is sometimes impractical to consider every detail of a scientific topic during its application. Therefore, I want to clarify the foundations of a particular subject such that during its future application, a student can identify relevant minutiae and then estimate the amount of personal resources that must be invested to learn them on her own. In order to do this, I plan to use 
a) a course structure where lectures will cover a topic in a general way and then
b) use exercises on a special topic (say, interface between solid and liquid).

Goal 2: to help them develop analogies between different concepts
Important scientific and technological advances have resulted from analogies constructed between seemingly unrelated concepts. Moreover, I have observed that analogies often help in solving routine problems. To give an example in molecular simulations, analogies can be exploited to develop a single computer algorithm that can handle different ensembles. In order to help students utilize this aspect of thinking, 
a) I plan to arrange my course such that even if successive topics may appear unrelated at first glance, they will contain interesting similarities at the basic level.

Goal 3: to inculcate sharing habits
Sharing knowledge is an important part of the modern world as indicated by the usefulness of large scale collaborative projects like Wikipedia and Linux. I like to think of each course as a collaborative project between me and students. Here, I propose to implement a novel teaching scheme called class-sourcing [2]. Typically, each course will use a separate collaborative software tool (like a Wiki6) to enable the modification of course notes by students. The course will start with notes by me that will be modified and expanded by students over the duration of course. Such software 
a) help in tracking the individual contributions and 
b) moderating them (in this case, by me). A part of students’ grades will depend on their participation in this project. With each semester, the modified notes will help new batch of students understand topics with greater clarity. Also, to avoid the saturation of contents, this strategy will induce them to follow new developments and develop their writing skills. Finally, this work will be shared on website so that broader community can benefit from student’s efforts.

Goal 4: to develop long-term curiosity
Finally, I am interested in developing curiosity among students towards natural and artificial processes surrounding them. I think that curiosity can help a person live an intellectually fulfilling life irrespective of her profession. An important step towards this direction will be to help them realize that members of the course – including me – are research collaborators. Some exercises will be designed to include a small part of actual challenges faced during my research projects. Students’ attempts will be rewarded by showing them how the particular exercise problem forms an important piece of a larger research story. I expect this teaching scheme to motivate them to look curiously at a particular question with the hope of understanding its bigger implications.

References
1. Parolo, P. D. B. et al. Attention decay in science. arXiv:1503.01881 [physics.soc-ph] (2015). at <http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.01881>
2. Tsipursky, G. Class-Sourcing: Student-Created Digital Artifacts as a Teaching Strategy. (2014). at <http://cgi.stanford.edu/~dept-ctl/cgi-bin/tomprof/enewsletter.php?msgno=1343>
3. MediaWiki. at <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki>
4. Docear. at <http://www.docear.org/>

